So over the last lectures, you learned about fetch,
now you might still wonder, fetch is nice but what's the difference to Ajax requests we send
prior to this, either via jQuery which behind the scenes used it or by hardcoding it on
our own.
Let me quickly show you how we sent this request here with the old Ajax logic,
I'll add it above it. Here I'll
first of all set up my xhr object where I instantiate a new XML HTTP request. As a next step,
we open a connection by calling open and there we say that we want to send a get request and we set
this
URL here because I want to send the same request let's say. Up on this point,
we don't do anything, we just configured the request, we opened the connection but we didn't send anything.
Next I could set the response type to JSON because I expect JSON data and thereafter, I can register
an onLoad listener which is executed whenever we get back a response.
So here, I specify a function which should get executed
in this case and in this function, I can log my xhr response,
I also can specify an onError handler to handle any error I might get,
so here I could console log error.
Now finally to really send this, we have to call send.
So that's quite some code for just sending a simple get request.
Now you might say this is also quite some code but here we're not just getting the response, we would
be done by here,
we're also extracting the data and get this nicely formatted.
Now if I save this and I go back to my application and reload the app page, you see this is the call, the data here,
line 45,
this one here
I get back with the traditional Ajax XML HTTP request.
Of course it works,
however it works differently behind the scenes,
it has a lot of synchronous code in there and therefore won't work in service workers which are all
about asynchronous code,
so you can't use that in service workers and it's more complex,
verbose. Opening it,
setting the response type like this, setting up event listeners and then sending it,
well this syntax certainly is easier,
this one line already sends the request and then here, we handle the response.
This is very convenient and this is why the fetch API is nice to use in general, again for service workers
especially,
you don't even have a choice,
you have to use fetch because service workers only allow you to use asynchronous ready operations like
fetch here,
you can't use the traditional Ajax request in service workers.
So this is something you have to keep in mind,
I'll leave it here for reference
but we won't use that in this course, we will use fetch and we'll especially use it in service workers because
there, we have to use it.